For we continue I think it's very important for us to take some time to better understand javascript
a synchronous event handling.
Now that's a mouthful but asynchronous event handling is a huge part of not only javascript but also
the react ecosystem
with iOS 6.
There was promises that got introduced as a means of handling asynchronous events.
We've already used them a little bit when we used fetch IN OUR MONSTER'S Rolodex project.
But let's take a deeper dive into both fetch and promise as well as the new iOS 7 syntax of async await.
These are three things that we're going to use a lot in our application so let's first look at what
we had before promises.
So we could understand how promises were now I've got some pseudocode here but you can imagine what
it is that this code is trying to do.
We have some function called get user which fetches it from this link right of Facebook slash you.
So we're fetching our Facebook user Iowa and then we give it this function which is called a callback
inside of it is either going to get the successfully retrieved user or an error.
If something goes wrong along the way if there is an error we want to throw the error right.
If there is no error then we want to get the user I.D. and set it to this constant of user I.D. and
then we want to pass that into this new function get friends or we give it the user I.D..
Right.
And maybe that fetches friends from whatever back and API it is right.
We don't really care and then we give it also another callback.
But this time similar to what we just did with our get user it's either going to give us back our list
of friends or it's going to give us back an error if something goes wrong we'll do the same thing right.
If an errors we want to throw the error because we want to stop our code right.
If there is an error and then we want to get our friend John from that list of friends if there is no
error we want to do some find right.
However it is that we get them and then we want to get his posts in a similar method as the one before
we give posts.
JOHN Right.
It gets it from whatever back end and then we give it another callback.
Posts error.
If our throw the error.
Right.
If there is no error I want the first post and then finally I want to get the comments for the post
similar method similar callback before we finally end up displaying the comments so this was as is as
much of a mouthful to say as it is to read.
Reading this code is really difficult because it's this massive pyramid tree like shape of nested callbacks
and what we affectionately refer to this as is callback hell because this code is extensively difficult
to read and debug now with the introduction of promises.
Its aim was to extrapolate out a lot of the stuff.
And the reason for it is because this code here these functions are all a synchronous functions.
We don't know when those functions will complete and we have to nest a bunch of other function calls
inside of each other because each one depends on the result and the return of the previous one in order
for us to get our friends we need our user I.D. which we get after we fetch it right and then order
to get the posts we need to get a friend after we've gotten our friends list after we've gotten it from
our user like it's just this long repetitive process but this is also part of our coding.
A lot of the times this is what we'll need to do in order to eventually get that right final set of
data we need so promises has simplified this and promises was introduced in iOS 6.
So let's take a look at what it is so let's get rid of this for now now.
A promise is instantiated with this constructor so we'll say concert my promise is equal to new promise
and then the promise is given a function and in this function it gets past two things a resolve and
a reject.
Now what is the resolve and what is the reject.
While a promise is kind of exactly as what it's named.
It is a promise that this object will eventually have a value.
It will either be a resolved value or a rejected value the resolve value we use when our API call for
example is successful our reject call we use when our API call gives us an error but the promise will
be in a state where it's pending until either the resolve or the reject has been called now what does
that mean.
So let's say we have some set time now and set time out is just this function that takes a callback
and a time as a second argument that time is in milliseconds.
So we're saying after 1000 milliseconds or one second we want to run this function and the function
we want to run is resolve with the term I have succeeded
by doing this.
We are saying that after one second I want this promise to call the resolve key with this value of I
have succeeded.
So when this happens when resolve finally gets called after one second I promise now holds this value
that we pass to the resolve and order for us to access it.
We have to say my promise.
Then and then we pass the dot then a function where value will be resolved.
Value.
So now we can finally console log the value.
Now let's open up our terminal and run this and see let's say we run our code.
We will see that after one second it logged I have succeeded because our promise has resolved this value
now reject.
We'll work in a similar way except in how we end up accessing it what we would do is let's say we have
some call where we say let's say we have a conditional and we'll just set this to true for now.
Right.
If it's true then we want to resolve our code otherwise we want to reject with I have failed.
Now if we set our conditional to false right we will hit or else block and it will reject and the only
way for us in our promise code following that instantiation to access the rejected value is to chain
on a dot catch with the DOT catch we will get the reject value
inside of the callback that we pass to it.
So if we were to console log it
then now we will see we get the I have failed.
So what we're getting with this promise is control over what we want to do with asynchronous events.
If they succeed or fail now sometimes if we're just using said time out there's no reason to reject.
And that's perfectly fine if we just want to defer our promises resolution.
Right.
And we're using a set timeout and there's no reason to reject.
That's perfectly fine too.
There's no need to call reject.
Right.
We can only just resolve but by having a reject we are able to control the separation of a successful
API callback from an unsuccessful API callback and that's the main benefit of using promises is because
when we make an API call we don't know whether or not that will work 100 percent of the time.
If we call a server we don't know if that's servers down.
We also don't know if we made a mistake in the parameters that we're passing in that API call let's
say our backend is expecting a user I.D..
Right.
When you fetch at a certain endpoint you don't give it the right sobriety or you forget to give it an
I.D. then that API call will throw you back with an error saying that's not right.
You didn't give me a user I.D..
Well we want to handle that differently than we want to handle a successful API call.
And that's why we have both this resolve and reject because we're able to separate our concerns our
successes into then callback and our failure our error is in the reject callback which is in our catch
there's another thing that we can do with our promises we're actually able to chain dot then together
because the callback that we pass to it whatever gets returned.
Right.
In this case we're returning console law which actually doesn't return anything.
It just returns undefined but let's say we were to return our value but we want to add a bunch of exclamation
marks to it.
Right so we're returning a new string plus four exclamation marks what dot then will do with that value
is it will wrap it inside of a resolve promise that way we can change dot then on it with our new value
and then console log that new value because the DOT then has wrapped this value in a resolve promise
you can only call dot then on a resolved promise.
Right.
You can't call it on a normal string.
And the only reason we're able to do so is because each dot then is wrapping the value that gets returned
from the callback that they get passed in a resolved promise.
Now we can do this as many times as we want because every dot then will be wrapping that return in a
resolve promise and we actually have seen promises before if you're keen.
This actually looks a lot like when we used fetch if we look at this code we see that fact sheet looks
very similar to the promise code we just wrote.
The reason for this is because fetch returns us a promise when you call fetch it's returning you a promise
value while it makes an API request to the you are all that you passed it if the end point for example
throws an error like let's say we don't have the right permission to access it or the server is down
or we misspelled the actual end your URL well instead of giving us back a value factual actually also
reject that value in the promise that it gives back to us if it's successful instead it will resolve
it which is how we're able to get a dot then response because that response is what that fetch gave
us back we convert it to adjacent objects right by calling dot Jason on response.
And as I mentioned before it ends up wrapping that Jason value in another resolve promise which it then
passes to the next dot then which we then finally console log so if we were to look that's what's happening
here that first promise is what gets returned from the fetch a pending promise.
Right.
Because it's not resolved or rejected but once that comes back it's successful it resolves it internally
and then the dot then gets called because it resolved if we were to say mess up this you are all right.
So now we know it's false.
Right.
If we catch instead let's not console log the error because the error is quite ugly.
You can imagine we do whatever we want with the error.
Right.
But I'm just going to console log the string I have aired if we run this we'll see that the I have error
string was the one that got console logged because the catch occurred right because the get call from
our fetch failed and it came back with an error and internally fetch rejected that error on our promise
object.
Now while the chaining of our promises is rather easy there is a little bit of complexity when it comes
to figuring out how to structure our actual promise wrapping.
The good news is that with iOS 7 there was a new function that was introduced called async await that
allows us to better handle how we write our asynchronous code.
So let's take a look at that.
Now.